STAC-24940: document how to enable suse virtualization (#366)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/use/suse/suse-virtualization.adoc

`global.features.experimentalStackpacks` in the deployment command:

[bash,]
----
helm upgrade --install \
    --namespace suse-observability \
    --create-namespace \
    --values values.yaml \
    --set global.features.experimentalStackpacks=true \
    suse-observability \
    suse-observability/suse-observability
----

=== Install the SUSE Virtualization StackPack

Go to main menu \-> StackPacks \-> SUSE Virtualization and install it.  This will add a new main menu group:

image::virtualization-mainmenu.png[Main menu]

To populate the overviews, observability data needs to flow from the Harvester cluster into SUSE Observability.

== Install Agent

=== Getting the Kubeconfig

In the Harvester UI, go to the Support page and download the KubeConfig.

image::harvester-kubeconfig.png[Download the kubeconfig.yaml]

=== Deploy the Agent

In SUSE Observability, go to main menu \-> StackPacks \-> Kubernetes and add an instance.
Record the cluster name, ingest URL and service token in a `values.yaml` file:

[,yaml]
----
stackstate:
  apiKey: __SERVICE_TOKEN__
  cluster:
    name: __CLUSTER_NAME__
  url: __STACKSTATE_INGEST_URL__

global:
  features:

>     experimentalStackpacks: true

Reviewer: this should not end up in the ultimate docs

Reviewer: as in, we should flip this feature flag before release

Author: yep.  Though that is going to be a simple search/replace when we're ready for release - I was hoping to point the SUSE Virtualization team to the docs before that.

> otel:

Reviewer: i feel this is quite a bit of config to get the thing going. especialy the targetallocator part

Author: luckily the prometheus scraping config is the same as the default - removed it.

  enabled: true
  k8sResourceCollector:
    integrations:
      suseVirtualization: true
      rancher: true

>   prometheusScraping:

Reviewer 2: Aren't these (the `prometheusScraping` section)  all the defaults for this configuration already? Or did we change that during my vacation?

    enabled: true
    crds:
      # The agent chart can install ServiceMonitor/PodMonitor CRDs when the cluster lacks them.
      enabled: true

>     targetAllocator:

Reviewer 2: Specifically this section shouldn't need to be touched I think.

ifdef::ss-ff-stackpacks2_enabled[]
= SUSE Virtualization
:page-languages: [en, de, es, fr, ja, pt, zh]
:revdate: 2026-06-16
:page-revdate: {revdate}
:description: SUSE Observability

== Overview

Listing and inspecting your Harvester Virtual Machines can be achieved with the
SUSE Virtualization stackpack.  Running the SUSE Observability Agent on the
internal Kubernetes cluster, metrics and VM details are propagated to

> {stackstate-product-name}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Listing and inspecting your Harvester Virtual Machines can be achieved with the SUSE Virtualization stackpack. Running the SUSE Observability Agent on the internal Kubernetes cluster, metrics and VM details are propagated to {stackstate-product-name}.
```

== Install Platform

Follow the xref:installing-suse-obs.adoc[Installing SUSE Observability] guide
to install SUSE Observability.  Since stackpacks2 are still under a feature
flag you do need to enable that by enabling

> `global.features.experimentalStackpacks` in the deployment command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the xref:installing-suse-obs.adoc[Installing SUSE Observability] guide to install {stackstate-product-name}. Since stackpacks2 are still under a feature flag you do need to enable that by enabling
`global.features.experimentalStackpacks` in the deployment command:
```

[bash,]
----
helm upgrade --install \
    --namespace suse-observability \
    --create-namespace \
    --values values.yaml \
    --set global.features.experimentalStackpacks=true \
    suse-observability \
    suse-observability/suse-observability
----

=== Install the SUSE Virtualization StackPack

Go to main menu \-> StackPacks \-> SUSE Virtualization and install it.  This will add a new main menu group:

image::virtualization-mainmenu.png[Main menu]

> To populate the overviews, observability data needs to flow from the Harvester cluster into SUSE Observability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To populate the overviews, observability data needs to flow from the Harvester cluster into {stackstate-product-name}.
```

== Install Agent

=== Getting the Kubeconfig

In the Harvester UI, go to the Support page and download the KubeConfig.

image::harvester-kubeconfig.png[Download the kubeconfig.yaml]

=== Deploy the Agent

> In SUSE Observability, go to main menu \-> StackPacks \-> Kubernetes and add an instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In {stackstate-product-name}, go to main menu \-> StackPacks \-> Kubernetes and add an instance.
```

Record the cluster name, ingest URL and service token in a `values.yaml` file:

[,yaml]
----
stackstate:
  apiKey: __SERVICE_TOKEN__
  cluster:
    name: __CLUSTER_NAME__
  url: __STACKSTATE_INGEST_URL__

global:
  features:
    experimentalStackpacks: true

otel:
  enabled: true
  k8sResourceCollector:
    integrations:
      suseVirtualization: true
      rancher: true
----

Follow the "Generic Kubernetes" installation instructions, with helm command:

[,bash]
----
helm upgrade --install \
  --kubeconfig /path/to/kubeconfig.yaml \
  --namespace suse-observability-agent \
  --values values.yaml \
  suse-observability-agent suse-observability/suse-observability-agent
----

=== Create ServiceMonitors

To ship metrics from Harvester to SUSE Observability, you must create a couple
of ServiceMonitors.  Note that the label `observability.suse.com/agent: scrape`
ensures that the service monitor is scraped by the OTEL integration of SUSE 

> Observability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ship metrics from Harvester to {stackstate-product-name}, you must create a couple of ServiceMonitors.  Note that the label `observability.suse.com/agent: scrape` ensures that the service monitor is scraped by the OTEL integration of {stackstate-product-name}.
```

apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: harvester-api-metrics
  namespace: harvester-system
  labels:
    observability.suse.com/agent: scrape
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: harvester
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: harvester-api
  endpoints:
    - port: https-metrics
      scheme: https
      path: /metrics
      interval: 30s
      scrapeTimeout: 10s
      tlsConfig:
        insecureSkipVerify: true
---
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: kubevirt-metrics
  namespace: harvester-system
  labels:
    observability.suse.com/agent: scrape
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: harvester
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - harvester-system
      - cattle-monitoring-system
      - kubevirt
  selector:
    matchExpressions:
      - key: prometheus.kubevirt.io
        operator: Exists
  endpoints:
    - port: metrics
      scheme: https
      path: /metrics
      interval: 30s
      scrapeTimeout: 10s
      tlsConfig:
        insecureSkipVerify: true
----

== Verify SUSE Virtualization

The SUSE Observability Agent running in the Harvester cluster sends

> `kubevirt.io` custom resources, pod details and metrics to SUSE Observability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`kubevirt.io` custom resources, pod details and metrics to {stackstate-product-name}.
```
